Update Agents dev docs to add MCP server page (#19689)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: src/content/docs/agents/capabilities/mcp-server.mdx

---
pcx_content_type: tutorial
title: Build an MCP Server
sidebar:
  order: 1
  group:
    hideIndex: true
description: Build and deploy an MCP server on Cloudflare Workers
---
[Model Context Protocol (MCP)](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) is an open standard that allows AI assistants & LLMs to interact with services directly. If you want users to access your service or product straight from their AI assistant, you can enable this by spinning up an MCP server for your application. 

## Building an MCP Server on Cloudflare Workers

> Normally, setting up an MCP server requires handling infrastructure, API routing, and understanding the MCP protocol. But with [Cloudflare Workers](/workers/), all the heavy lifting is done for you, so all you need to do is define your service's functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Normally, setting up an MCP server requires writing boilerplate code to handle routing, define types, and standing up a server that implements the MCP protocol. But with [Cloudflare Workers](/workers/), all the heavy lifting is done for you, so all you need to do is define your service's functionality as TypeScript methods on your Worker
```

> Once deployed, your Worker becomes an MCP server that AI assistants (as long as they support MCP) can connect to and use to interact with your service.

Reviewer: Do we need to caveat local only somewhere early?

Reviewer 2: There are currently only local MCP clients, so it's not really necessary to specify right now. But as long as we update the `workers-mcp` package when remote MCP drops I think this documentation can stay unchanged?

- **Automatic documentation:** Public methods annotated with JSDoc are automatically documented and exposed as MCP tools. This means AI assistants can quickly understand how to interact with your service, making tool discovery and integration much easier.
- **Scalability & performance:** Deploy your MCP server on Cloudflare's global edge network so that users can make fast, performant requests from their LLMs. Cloudflare will handle traffic spikes and high load, ensuring your service remains available and responsive.
- **Expand MCP server capabilities:** Easily connect to Workers AI, D1, Durable Objects, and other Cloudflare services to add more functionality to your MCP Server. 

## Get Started

Follow these steps to create and deploy your own MCP server on Cloudflare Workers.

### 1. Create a new Worker 

If you haven't already, install [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/) and log in:

> ```bash

Reviewer 3: Might want to switch this to https://developers.cloudflare.com/style-guide/components/package-managers/ + I'm pretty sure the `-g` flag isn't what we've recommended since Wrangler 1 or 2?

npm install -g wrangler
wrangler login
```

Initialize a new project:
```bash

> wrangler init my-mcp-project

Reviewer 3: https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/commands/#init --> Should be using `create`.

Likely should follow this pattern too, https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/blob/production/src/content/docs/queues/tutorials/handle-rate-limits/index.mdx?plain=1#L41-L55

Author: updated

cd my-mcp-worker
```

### 2. Install the MCP Tooling
Inside your project directory, install the [workers-mcp](https://github.com/cloudflare/workers-mcp) package:

```bash
npm install workers-mcp
```

This package provides the tools needed to run your Worker as an MCP server.

> 

Reviewer 2: Missing a step here:

### 3. Configure your Worker to support MCP

```bash
npx workers-mcp setup
```

This guided installation process takes a brand new or existing Workers project and adds the required tooling to become an MCP server:

* Automatic documentation generation
* Shared-secret security using Wrangler Secrets
* Installs a local proxy so you can access it from your MCP desktop clients (like Claude Desktop)

Author: Good callout — added!
